# DPI Sinatra Animal Generator

Welcome to the Random Animal Generator application! This application randomly generates an animal image accompanied by a randomly generated quote for that particular animal. You can choose from our selection of 4 animals (dog, cat, fox, duck) or surprise to randomly select an animal of our choosing.

This application requires the following to function:
* GitHub
* Ruby version `3.2.1`
* Public APIs (no download or access key required)

# Getting Started
To get started, fork the repository from [GitHub](https://github.com/teresa-c-pham/dpi-sinatra-project) and open up a codespace to view the application's code. <br>
<u>Note</u>: GitHub offers free codespaces to use with limited space which is very beneficial to low-storage applications such as this project.

Then, in the terminal, type `bundle install` to install the necessary dependencies and gems required for the application to run. Once the installation is complete, you should receive a message on the number of gems/dependencies installed.
```
Bundle complete! 18 Gemfile dependencies, 69 gems now installed.
Use `bundle info [gemname]` to see where a bundled gem is installed.
```

Then, run `bin/server` to begin using the application!
```
Puma starting in single mode...
* Puma version: 6.4.2 (ruby 3.2.1-p31) ("The Eagle of Durango")
*  Min threads: 0
*  Max threads: 5
*  Environment: development
*          PID: 34989
* Listening on http://127.0.0.1:3000
* Listening on http://[::1]:3000
Use Ctrl-C to stop
```
 
 # How the Application Works
 Now that we have initiated our server using `bin/server` in our terminal, click on the Ports tab to begin accessing our application http link. <br>
 <u>Note</u>: There may be more than one port shown, however, our main port will be 3000 which we are listening into from Puma.
 ## Step 1: Main Screen
 After clicking on the forwarded address under **Port 3000**, the main screen will feature 5 different options: Cat, Dog, Fox, Duck, and Surprise me. Feel free to choose from any of the five and press the generate button when you are finished!

## Step 2: Generate Image
Clicking on the button redirects you over to `"/generate"` which calls upon your selected animal's api to generate a random image and random caption. 

## Step 3: Re-generate Image or Return to Main Screen
A new image can be repetitively generated by refreshing the browser or clicking the `Generate another pic` down below the image. Clicking `Return to Main Menu` will return you to `"/"` to request a user to select from the 5 different options again.

# Additional Material
Optionally, to use `ActiveRecord` for database operations, add to the `app.rb`:

```ruby
require "sinatra/activerecord"
```

And in the `config/environment.rb` file add this code block:

```ruby
configure do
  # setup a database connection
  set(:database, { adapter: "sqlite3", database: "db/development.sqlite3" })
end
```
